[Touhou 3D] Eternal Night - part 0
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xRSlq42_sUE

Here's a summary of what's happening in this minusT video,
primarily for those who are not familiar with Touhou.
Many summaries below are from the Wikipedia pages
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperishable_Night and
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Touhou_Project_characters
My apologies for any errors, hopefully I haven't made too many.

This video is a 3D depiction based on the Touhou video game
"Touhou Eiyashou" (Imperishable Night),
Japanese: 東方永夜抄 〜 Imperishable Night.,
Hepburn: Tōhō Eiyashō, lit. "Eternal Night Vignette from the East".
It is the eighth official game of the Touhou Project scrolling
shooter video game series, and the third main Touhou
game to be released for the Windows operating system.

Yōkai (also spelled youkai) is a term used to refer to
Japanese folk creatures and ghosts, or to supernatural beings in general.
In the Touhou series, the growth of rationalism and new explanations for
strange phenomena has made it difficult for
yōkai to survive in the modern era, as they are
are dependent on conflict with humans in order to survive,
The valley of Gensokyo, sealed off from the Outside World,
serves as one of their sanctuaries.
Within Gensokyo is a Human Village, and there are special rules and
customs within Gensokyo.
For example, yōkai are forbidden from killing natives of the
Human Village (but not humans from the Outside World).

The Imperishable Night game "features a total of eight playable
characters, in pre-set pairs (and later, individually). The pairs,
one human and one yōkai, work in tandem: one person fires when
unfocused, while the other pops in and fires when focused, with a
reduction in movement speed. The two attacks can be drastically different."
It uses a 'time' counter, "which requires the player to collect a
certain amount of "time points", either by collecting point items,
grazing enemy bullets or killing enemies. If the player fails to
collect the required amount by the end of the stage, the clock
will advance by one hour. Otherwise, the clock only advances half
an hour. The clock starts at 11:00PM; if the player ever reaches
5:00AM in-game, the player is given a bad ending. Having to continue
also advances the clock by half an hour."

Here's a premise of the game (per Wikipedia):
"On the eve of Gensokyo's Harvest Moon Festival, the moon has been
replaced by a fake moon that can never become full. In order to
find the real moon before sunrise, the protagonists search for the
person that stole the moon, so they can return it, and prevent the
possibility of an imperishable night."

Touhou is a series of "bullet hell shoot 'em up" games developed by
Team Shanghai Alice since 1995.
Team Shanghai Alice is really a single person, Jun'ya Ōta, who
goes by the pseudonym ZUN.
He creates the story, code, music, art... everything!
Unlike most video games, ZUN encourages fan creations with very generous
requirements; this has lead to an explosion of fan-created works.

One of those fan-created Touhou works is the popular
"Bad Apple" video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9lNZ_Rnr7Jc
as explained here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6QY4ekac1_Q
This video is entirely in black-and-white silhouttes, and yet the
characters are identifiable; if a character's still recognizable
from the silhouette "that is usually a sign of a strong design".
https://yesimadesigner.com/10-principles-of-character-illustration/
That fan-created screenplay that led to the video, and video itself,
led to an extraordinary number of other versions:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i8lDuo9yqfs
Of course minusT's extraordinary videos are more examples of
of fan-created works.

In English, given names are usually listed first and family names last.
In Japanese, the order is opposite: family names are first and
given names are last.
This text is in English, so I'll list given names first, but I'll capitalize
the family names to make it especially clear which is which.

Below is a timeline. When new characters appear, I briefly describe
who the character is.

0:06
Wideshot of Scarlet Devil Mansion (owned by the vampire Remilia Scarlet).
The clock clearly moves to 10:45PM, approaching the game "start time"
of 11:00PM.

0:09
Sakuya IZAYOI - head maid of the Scarlet Devil Mansion, a human.
(She attacks by throwing knives over a wide area; she has the power
to control time.)
We start by seeing Sakuya serving Remilia some tea.

Remilia SCARLET - Mistress of the Scarlet Devil Mansion; she
is is very distinctive-looking because she has wings.
She is a yōkai (not human). In the game,
she can station her shots in one place while she moves elsewhere.
She has strong magical powers, and while she seems initially nonthreatening,
she is widely known as the dangerous "Scarlet Devil".
She is a vampire, so she weakens in sunlight - as a result,
she tends to stay inside her mansion during the day.
She occasionally needs human blood, but not much, so
she does not normally kill humans when drinking their blood.

Together they are the Visionary Scarlet Devil Team.
Remilia sent Sakuya to investigate, but Sakuya failed to notice anything
wrong. Remilia then went out to deal with the incident herself,
with Sakuya following behind.

0:24
Reimu HAKUREI - Shrine maiden (miku) of the Haurei shine,
which is located at the boundary between Gensokyo and the Outside World.
She wears a red and white dress with a long skirt
(it's a hakama, but it's unconventional because the arm sleeves are 
detached).  She is human.
She attacks using homing amulets.
She's the main protagonist of the Touhou series, appearing in every
Touhou game to date.
She's strong without having to do any training, so she doesn't believe
that hard work pays off and she tries to avoid hard work herself.
She can be tempestuous and is prone to hasty conversations.
As the Hakurei shrine maiden she is officially in charge of exterminating
yōkai whenever they cause trouble, though these "exterminations" (along
with those of her colleagues) are usually nonlethal; sealings
or executions are reserved only for those that cannot abide by the rules.
Reimu takes a stern pose against yokai
and is relatively ruthless when doing her job of extermination.
Otherwise she has a carefree personality, and gets along with almost
everyone (even those humans or yokai who were once her enemies).
In the "Bad Apple" video Reimu is the first and last character shown.

Yukari YAKUMO - The yōkai who controls boundaries,
has a dress with a vertical stripe down the front center.
She is a yōkai.
(She attacks using needles and her shikigami Ran,
who targets and attacks onto enemies)
Yukari doesn't do a particularly good job of handling the seal between
Gensoyko and the Outside World; she sleeps a lot and often leaves the
work to others (particuarly Ran and Chen, her shikigami).
That said, Yukari is one of the most intelligent and powerful yokai when
she chooses to apply herself.

Together Reimu and Yukari are the Illusionary Border Team.
Ever since the moon got replaced with a fake one, Yukari hasn't
been able to sleep. Because Yukari doesn't go out much, she had to
rope Reimu in as a guide.
Yukari looks at her watch, which shows 11:00pm (the time at game start).

In this video Yukari casts a spell image that appears to be a
tesseract (a four-dimensional analogue of the cube); this is appropriate
since she controls boundaries.

0:45
Youmu KONPAKU - Half-human half-ghost gardener of the Netherworld.
Shorter and uses a sword.
(Fires with her ghostly half, which acts as an option that fires
opposite to her move direction.)

Yuyuko SAIGYOUJI - Ghostly princess of the Netherworld.
Tall and has a circular symbol on her forehead.
First appears to be a ditz, but is in fact extremely insightful.
She was once a living human, but is no longer.
(Attacks with ghost familiars with wide shots.)

Together they are the Netherworld Dwellers' Team.
Yuyuko and Youmu both sensed something was wrong from the Netherworld,
but Yuyuko wasn't too confident in Youmu to let her investigate by
herself, since someone who could manage to seal the real moon away
must be very powerful, so both Yuyuko and Youmu set out.

This starting shot shows them in the Netherworld; notice the
ghostly apparitions.

0:52
Alice MARGATROID - Marisa's fellow magician who lives
in the Forest of Magic.
She wears a blue dress.
She is a yōkai (not human),
She attacks with her doll, Shanghai, who fires a laser.

Marisa KIRISAME - A witch (magician) who lives in the Forest of Magic.
She wears a black and white outfit with a pointed hat, and
flies on a broomstick.  She is human.
(Attacks using magic missiles.)
Marisa's powers derive entirely from hard work and determination
(in contrast to Reimu who is naturally talented).
Marisa is an avid collector (so Alice's offering of a book is tempting to her);
Marisa often "borrows" things without permission.
Marisa is a very popular Touhou character; in the "Bad Apple" video
Marisa is both the second and next-to-last character shown.

Together they are the Aria of Forbidden Magic Team.
Annoyed at how the humans are oblivious to what's going on, Alice
tried to solve the mystery by herself, but she ended up bribing
Marisa with books to make her tag along.

The starting shot shows Alice running from her home in the Forest of Magic
to Marisa's house, which is also in the Forest of Magic.

1:03
Recap of teams (with members left-to-right):

Aria of Forbidden Magic Team: Alice MARGATROID and Marisa KIRISAME

Illusionary Border Team: Reimu HAKUREI and Yukari YAKUMO

Netherworld Dwellers' Team: Youmu KONPAKU and Yuyuko SAIGYOUJI

Visionary Scarlet Devil Team: Sakuya IZAYOI and Remilia SCARLET

The "Bad Apple" video includes all 8 of these characters, in this
order of first appearance: Reimu (0:00), Marisa (0:15), Remilia (0:37),
Sakuya (0:45), Youmu (0:48), Yuyuko (0:59, with a sword),
Yukari (2:22, under a twirling umbrella),
and Alice (2:50, with her doll Shanghai).
You can see the names here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BEutktB7KNY

1:06
Stage 1.
Sakuya IZAYOI throws knives and runs on them, while
Remilia SCARLET flies in.
They confront mid-boss
Wriggle Nightbug, a firefly yokai who happens to be in the way.

1:21
Stage 2.
Mystia Lorelei, a night sparrow preying on humans, fights
our heros Yuyuko SAIGYOUJI and Youmu KONPAKU.
Youmu slices attacks with her sword.

1:35
Stage 3.
Marisa KIRISAME flies in on her broom, followed by Alice MARGATROID,
to fight Keine KAMISHIRASAWA,
a teacher of the terakoya in the Human Village as well as its
guardian, who turns into a hakutaku (a mythical beast) during full
moons (and thus is a were-hakutaku).
Keine wears a hat with a building and red ribbon on top and glyphs along the
sides.  She wears a dark blue dress with white short sleeves.
In human form Keine can "eat" history, that is,
conceal history from outside viewers.

Keine is sensitive to the moon herself, so she realized that strange
events were occurring.
She hid the Human Village's history to protect it from powerful
yokai, making it seem as if there had never been a village.
Once defeated, she points the duo to those responsible for the fake moon.

1:49
Stage 4.

Marisa KIRISAME and Alice MARGATROID approach. For them, their
stage 4 boss they must overcome is Reimu HAKUREI (a playable character!).
Reimu is looking for the one who stopped the passage of time.
(Marisa is the stage 4 boss for
Reimu/Yukari or Youmu/Yuyuko; like Reimu, Marisa is searching for
whoever she thinks is the one lengthening the night.)

Marisa tells Alice to stay back; Reimu is strong and her job involves
extermination of yōkai (such as Alice), while Marisa is human.
