[From the "Robust Open Source" mailing list moderated by Peter Neumann.
Email addresses and IDs have been modified to counter spammers.]

From: Henry Spencer <henryPLEASENOSPAM at spsystems.net>
To: open-source PLEASENOSPAM at csl.sri.com
Subject: Re: LWN - The Trojan Horse (Bruce Perens)
In-Reply-To: <2608984062.1196608 at arca.com>
Message-ID: <Pine.BSI.3.91.981123145426.15203C-100000 at spsystems.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII
Sender: owner-open-source at csl.sri.com
Reply-To: open-source at csl.sri.com

On Mon, 23 Nov 1998, Gary Grossman wrote:
> 2. In this case, checksums on object code would not have helped, as 
>   a. Ken was the originator of the TH-bearing object code in question, 
>      and could have checksummed it for distirubution...

For binaries in general, one can avoid this sort of thing either by always
building from sources, or by having multiple binary-distribution sites
which do the compile, compute the checksum, and compare checksums with
each other.  Much of the problem lies in trusting a single supplier of
binaries. 

The *compiler*, however, is a special case, and a particularly difficult
one:  short of hand-verifying the binary -- which has been done, for small
and particularly critical aerospace applications, but is impractical in
general -- it's hard to tell whether compilation has been honest.  Trying
to maintain rigorous control over the compilers at trusted-compilation
sites is helpful, but it's easy to slip up (note the occasional instance
of viruses distributed with commercial binary-only software).  It would
be better to have a way of *detecting* self-replicating Trojan Horses in
compilers.

One cannot just compile the compiler using a different compiler and then
compare to the self-compiled code, because two different compilers -- even
two versions of the same compiler -- typically compile different code for
a given input.  However, one can apply a further level of indirection.

Compile the compiler using both itself and a different compiler, yielding
two binaries.  These are supposedly the same machinery -- they came from
the same blueprints -- although they can't be directly compared because
the two different manufacturers have painted them different colors.  Now,
use both those binaries to compile the compiler source again, giving two
outputs.  Since the binaries are the same machinery, the outputs should be
identical.  Any difference indicates either a major bug somewhere, or an
infection in one of the original compilers.

This process does require a second compiler with different origins,
preferably as different as possible.  Note, though, that the second
compiler need not generate *good* code; it won't be used for building
production binaries.  It could even be an interpreter, if it's not
impossibly slow.

                                                          Henry Spencer
                                                       henry at spsystems.net
                                                     (henry at zoo.toronto.edu)

